Our next session this
afternoon is XML in WebObjects.
I'd like to introduce Bob Frank,
who's going to give the
presentation for this session.
Bob?
Thank you, Toni.
Hold on.
There's the clicker.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to XML in WebObjects.
Today we're going to cover a wide
variety of materials so that you
can get familiar with what is XML,
how to use it in WebObjects,
and why you should be using it.
Han Ming is going to cover
the basics of what XML is,
what are the key concepts,
and basically give you an overview
if you're not familiar with it.
Also he'll discuss serialization
of... using XML to read and
write simple configuration files,
which is a very common use of XML.
Also we'll be discussing
serialization of EOs.
Slightly more sophisticated,
but using the same approach
as you use for reading and
writing files is serializing
EOs into XML and also using XSLT,
which is XML-style transformations,
which allow you to transform one
XML document into another XML document.
Lastly,
we'll be discussing a very popular way of
using XML to communicate between servers,
XML RPC.
We'll discuss what it is, how to use it,
and compare and contrast it with SOAP.
You'll see the letter X so
many times in this session that
you'll probably be sick of it.
And without further ado, Han Ming.
There you go.
This button.
Good afternoon.
My name is Han-Ming Ong.
I'm in the engineering team.
And I'm going to give you
a quick refresher on XML.
I have 10 to 15 minutes,
so I'm going to assume that you
have done some XML work before.
So I'm going to give you some definition,
basic definitions of XML,
followed by constraints,
so that it can make
sense out of XML data.
There are two main specifications.
Sorry about that.
Okay.
So there are two main specifications
for doing constraints.
One is document type definition, DTD,
and schema.
So as Bob mentioned, with XML technology,
there's a proliferation of acronyms.
So my advice is don't worry
too much about the letters,
but try to understand
the meaning behind them.
Then I'll talk about
processing of XML data,
which means the producing and the
consumption and the consuming of
XML data using low-level APIs like DOM,
DOM, SAX, and JXP.
Then I'm going to give you a list
of parsers that one would use
to parse and consume XML data.
So what is XML?
Essentially, XML is structured data that
always has the same fixed,
big, synthetic formation.
It is always hierarchical
and tree-like form,
which means for developers like us,
we worry a lot less about the how
of extracting information out of it.
And because it is organized,
so it is familiar for
laymen to read as well.
That's one of the goals of XML.
The other great goal of XML is
that it should be portable.
And the reason why it is portable is
because it encodes the data as text.
A piece of text string is the
same across different development
platforms and languages.
and not only is it in text,
it accepts Unicode characters.
That means all the languages in
the world can be written in XML.
And it puts that encoding right at the
top in the declaration so that most
of the time you don't have to apply
heuristics to try to understand it.
The next slide I'm going to show
you is a simple XML document
so that you have a feel of it.
So the first line that you see is
what we call the XML declaration.
The version is 1.0.
The W3C organization did a good job,
so after two years or so, it's still 1.0.
They may wrap it up soon to 1.1.
The encoding that we see here is UTF-8,
which is a good default encoding.
For your, you know,
if you have just have English, you can,
you can, you can don't put it down
or you can put S-U-S-S key.
That will make the parsing a lot faster.
Here in this XML document,
we see a root element
called purchase order.
The starting tag is a line 3.
The ending tag is a line 10.
This root element has two char,
comment and item.
And here it has an
attribute called order date.
Attributes may or may not be required.
When it's present,
it usually means metadata.
and to illustrate the fact that
you can have Unicode character,
I put in some Chinese character,
which I'm sure all of you understand.
OK.
This thing right here.
I figured it out.
Linking at me.
Constraints.
The above XML document that we just saw
adheres to a concept called
well-formedness that is defined by
the basic XML 1.0 specifications.
The basic rules say stuff like,
you must have one and only one
root element in an XML document,
and every element must have an
opening tag and an ending tag.
There are many exceptions to it.
Validity is a contract of
structure between the producer
and the consumer of the XML data.
The producer of the XML data
would say stuff something like,
expect to see the root element
purchase order having a child element,
two child elements, comment an item.
The contract of structure varies
across domains and industry.
So when one says that an
XML document is valid,
it is always with respect to a contract.
And the structural contract
is defined in two ways.
More than two ways,
but the two most common
ways is using DTD,
document depth definition, and schemas.
So document type definition.
That's rooted way back in the SGML world.
And so for some of us
who have worked with XML,
you may find the syntax a bit weird.
But to some of the old timers out there,
it's very natural.
So you still have to publish
your contract in DTD.
The two main deficiencies with DTD,
unfortunately, is that it doesn't
have a typing facility.
and that it doesn't work
naturally with namespace.
Now, words in English,
common words in English,
are very important to some domains,
and they are common.
So you have to have namespace
to avoid the name conflict,
just like packages or namespace in C++.
So in the next slide,
I'm going to show you an example,
a simple example of a DTD, part of it,
that constrains the XML data
that we saw earlier on.
I don't want you to
focus too much into it,
but just, you know,
you'll find it intuitive.
So what it says here is,
you might find an element
called purchase order,
and it must have two child
elements in sequence,
comment, and item.
And it must have an
attribute called order date,
and it must be a parsed data.
So on and so forth.
Schema.
The same grand goals as DTD,
except that there are
three main differences.
The first one is it's written in XML,
which means for most of us
who are familiar with XML,
it's easy.
You can use your favorite XML editor,
create your schema file,
and have it validate
across the schema schema.
and solve two main problems, of course.
Data typing.
You can have the basic
system types like string,
integer, and so on and so forth,
and even customize types,
which means in schema files you can
put in stricter permissible content,
which can be validated.
And it works very
naturally with namespace.
So in the next slide,
I'm going to show you an
example of a schema file that
constrains the same XML data.
Despite slightly more verbose,
you will find it as intuitive.
I highlighted using colors to show
you the sections I want to talk about.
Red color is a prefix of a namespace.
You can call the prefix anything.
So in this case,
the prefix is linked to a namespace.
Namespace has a one-to-one
relationship with the URI.
In this case, our URI is an URL,
www.apple.com/publications.
So the prefix which
I chose to use is Apple.
If you focus on the gold color now,
these are just the elements.
We've seen that before.
Purchase order must have
two child in sequence,
two children in sequence.
The first child is comment.
The second child is item.
and the green colors are the data types.
I've mentioned before,
string in this case is a basic data type.
And it's great that, you know,
that W3C actually studied
quite a lot of languages to
find some common system type,
like string, integer, boolean.
It's very similar to Java,
so it's very easy for us to use.
And you can customize the type as well,
of course.
So at this point,
I'd like to take a little pause,
a little breather for me and for
some of you out there to remind
ourselves what XML is not really.
So a contract of structure
is just what it is.
There's no semantics in it.
It doesn't explain
what purchase order is.
What that means is the producer
of the XML data has to talk to the
consumer of the XML data to explain
to her what the XML elements are.
What the producer of the XML data usually
does is put the semantic explanation
in the DTD or in the schema file.
So you still have to talk
to achieve interoperability.
The second thing is that a piece of
XML data is just structured text data.
You still have to find
domains for end users for it.
Some of the users that we
have seen out there is storing
XML configuration information.
And to do that,
you have to find a way to store XML data.
You do content publishing,
meaning you store XML, your data is XML,
then you apply transformation to get WML,
HTML, or even binary formats like PDF.
And of course, a lot of companies,
including Apple WebObjects,
is leveraging XML to build web services,
whatever that means.
So we move on to processing of XML data.
This set of low-level APIs is
called Document Object Model.
Document Object Model has been used,
again, in the SGML world and way
back to model any documents,
not only XML.
Those of you in the audience who
have worked with HTML browsers must
have seen DOM models of HTML before.
So it is a very general tree structure.
And for me, at least,
and for some of you,
most of you out there,
you probably use it
for producing XML data,
serialize it out.
It is less useful parsing because
it is pretty memory intensive.
It builds the entire object tree
and let you manipulate from then.
There's another low-level
API that allows you to do parsing,
and most people like
this simple API for XML.
It is faster than DOM because
it is very sequential.
It starts at the very top,
look at the first element,
and it generates standard callbacks that
you're supposed to implement and handle.
It maintains very little
state information and hence
extremely lightweight,
which is good for parsing.
Jack Spie, this is neither sex nor DOM,
but it is an abstract layer that
Sun provides for you to instantiate
parsers and transformers so that
you can easily plug in transformers
and parsers from different vendors.
I would advise you to start
using it if you have not.
This will make your code more portable,
and you can choose parsers
depending on their performance
and functionality and speed.
So next slide will show you a list
of parsers that you can choose.
And if you have JaxP,
you can plug and play.
The Xerces parser, very popular.
Sun's Crimson parser is
going to be included in 1.4.
and I.B.M.
have their own parser.
And just to illustrate that, you know,
a lot of people write parsers as well,
James Clark has a
pretty reputable parser,
which I think is fast.
Okay, I'm going to switch gear now and
talk about the integration of
XML technology with WebObjects.
I'm finished with the refresher
so the XML expert can wake up.
So we're going to ship the
Xerces 2 parser and the Xilin
2 transformer in the Java XML.
Before, we used to, we planned, sorry,
I have to say this.
We planned to ship Xerces 2 and Xilin 2.
In the current WebObjects,
we only have the Xerces 1 parser,
but we have noticed that our
developers started using the
Xilin 2 transformer anyway.
So we want to facilitate that.
And synchronization of versions,
as some of you out there might know,
is very important.
So we keep them synchronized.
That's support at the lower API level.
At the slightly higher API level,
we have two serialization
schemes for WebObjects.
The first one,
as some of you may have used it,
is OXML Coding Decoder,
and we plan to support a new one
called NSXML Input and Output Stream.
So let's talk about them.
What is XML Coder and Decoder?
We like to deprecate them,
following the philosophy of deprecating,
of aligning our serialization
APIs with Java APIs.
Now the analogy here is
NS coding versus serializable.
We used to have NS coding,
which is a more objective C-way
of doing binary serialization.
We made the transition in
WebObjects 5 to serializable.
So we'd like to follow that and
deprecate all XML coder and decoder.
Following that deprecation,
we'll be saying goodbye
to our mapping file,
the non-standard mapping file that
we use for transforming XML data,
and say hello to XSLT.
My colleague Mike Brumbelow,
he will talk more about
XSLT transformation later on.
Now,
XSLT is an industry standard that became
a recommendation by W3C about a year ago,
I think.
And it is good because
knowledge is very portable.
Once you learn XSLT, you can use that
knowledge in Objective-C,
in C++, or even in Microsoft,
different platforms.
If you're already an XSLT expert,
you can apply the knowledge immediately.
So the new XML serialization scheme,
for the most part,
is going to be as easy as
the binary serialization,
because it follows the basic
binary serialization rules.
What that means is classes,
they already implement serializable.
You get,
they become XML serializable for free.
This is because the classes
that does the serialization,
an XML input stream and output stream,
they are built on top of
the respective I/O classes.
Instead of instantiating
object output stream,
you instantiate object
and XML output stream.
You write out the object and vice
versa for NSXML input stream.
So the WebObjects does the
heavy lifting of figuring out
what should be serialized.
And as I said, they follow the basic
serialization rules.
What that means is non-transitive,
non-static data members
become serializable.
And if you want to be fancier,
you override the two methods,
the write and read object,
to customize them.
They will be called.
And by aligning our APIs with
the Java industry standard,
the serializable interface,
we make our APIs more available to
Java developers who are learning
WebObjects and Java developers
who are more familiar with
the serializable interface.
So here is the default XML output
of a serialized object.
I want you to focus in the middle part,
because the rest are
just namespace and stuff.
We have a serialized object,
and this first child
is a class structure,
which most of us who are focusing on
the content part of it can ignore.
Those of you guys who want
to know the class structure,
it is there for you.
I'm going to skip to the content.
It just says that this object
has a field called first name,
and it is of data type string,
and the content is just Mike.
Now, this, this is, this is, this is,
this
This XML content is actually
deserializable to become a person object
in memory if you use an XML input stream.
So here is an example of how to
write out that particular object.
You must have seen this before
if you have used serialization,
binary serialization,
the last two lines at least.
You instantiate an object,
an NSXML output stream.
You write out the object,
and you close it.
That's it.
Now I want you to focus hard on the
next slide because it's going to be
really complicated for reading it in.
All right, that didn't go well.
It went well during rehearsal.
It's supposed to be a joke.
So, again,
you instantiate an NSXML input stream.
You read the object in, the XML data in.
You pass it to your class,
and then you close it.
That's it.
Good.
I'm doing pretty well on time.
So I'm going to give you a demo now,
demo two.
So
On using the new serialization
scheme to do configuration.
Now one word about storing
XML is configuration.
Now as I said earlier on,
because the basic structure
of XML is always the same,
so storing configuration data
into XML is becoming more popular.
You see it in Ant and almost everywhere,
in Tomcat.
This is because people worry a lot
less about the extracting of it.
They worry more about what
you're going to do with the data.
Compare this with makefiles, where,
you know, a tab is actually a very
important delimiter.
You miss that tab,
your makefile won't compile.
Or in the Apache configuration,
where the new line is an
important delimiter as well.
So here,
I'm going to make use of an example
that was shipped with WebObjects 5,
so that you're familiar with it.
It's create plot.
Create plot is a very simple example
that shows you how to make use of
the plotting APIs to create graphs.
And there are three kind of graphs.
One is based on floating point number.
The other one is based on string.
And the last one is based on date.
We hard-coded the example when we
shipped it so that it always started
with the floating point example.
I've already run it,
and let me bring up Y.
So this is the example that
started up when you first run it.
And it just plots a
graph of floating point.
And you can illustrate there are
three kind of graphs-- floating point,
date, and string.
So when the application started up,
it writes out a configuration file,
which I'm going to show you.
This is the XML configuration file.
It is similar to the XML data
that we saw earlier on.
And I added a comment.
I'll show you how to do it later on.
It says, "Change its value to configure
the starting plot." I'm
going to change it to object.
Save it.
Create a new session.
So a new session comes in.
And there you go.
It is a new CACIA object.
It is an object based on string.
And let me change it again back to date.
I have a new application.
So we have a new plot based on date.
So imagine an administrator who
is just concerned about changing
the configuration file and doesn't
care about WebObjects application.
She can go in and change the XML file,
and the next time the session comes in,
you have a new plot.
So now I'm going to go to the code
and walk you through it briefly.
I created a class called StudConfig
and I made it serializable.
And I'm following the
rules of serialization,
binary serialization.
I created a variable, instance,
a member variable called starting plot.
Make sure it's non-transitive
and non-static.
And because I added-- I wanted to
customize it by adding a comment,
if you do want to add a comment,
you don't have to customize--
override the WriteObject method.
I have a couple of utility
methods to help me create it.
Those are,
these are the stuff you saw earlier on.
Write an object and close it.
And this is the creation of the class.
And here, what I did was, I
I customize it so that
the session itself,
on a per session basis,
you can put this method in application
and it becomes application-wide.
And last, in the main.
So instead of hard coding it in main,
I now get it from the session.
That's it.
So with that, I'm going to bring up Mike.
He's going to talk about
serialization of EOs using the
new XML serialization scheme.
And he's going to talk about
transformation as well,
XSLT, one of my favorite topics.
Mike, please.
Thank you.
Hopefully this isn't the demon clicker.
Hi, my name is Mike Brumbelow,
and today I'll be talking about
EOXML serialization and XSLT.
The good news about EO XML serialization
is that it's easy as pie.
You give us a collection of EOs,
and we go through,
and using NSXML output stream,
we serialize it out for you.
And using NSXML input stream,
we read that back in for you.
Now,
concerning managing your object graph,
the good thing is that as a part
of the serialization process,
we don't fire off any faults.
So the objects you give us are
the objects you serialize out.
We don't fault any objects in.
Let me demo this for you here.
I wrote an application
that takes an RSS document.
An RSS stands for RDF Site Summary.
An RDF stands for
Resource Description Framework.
It's a way of describing
content information for a site.
And a lot of news sites vend this
kind of document out to the public,
and you can use it to
read news and information.
And I wrote an application that goes out,
pulls out this document,
and we'll display it on the screen here.
Where are you at?
There you go.
Now I'm going to launch it.
Okay,
I'm going to select a site to look at.
I'm going out and
fetching the RSS document,
and it's an XML document.
Going through and
displaying all the links,
information associated with that site,
the different news today.
Let's see, is there anything here for us?
No?
Okay.
Let's go to Wired.
Is there anything here concerning us?
Any news?
The last one, where's that at?
Hmm, let's look at that.
Interesting.
So, you know, we can navigate and look at
the different news articles and
everything underneath there.
So let's go back to cnetnews.com.
Now, when I press this button
at the bottom here,
Save Articles, that's going to go out.
It's going to fetch
that XML RSS document.
It's then going to save
it out to the database,
and then from there,
it'll convert it into EOs and
save it out to the database.
And then from there,
we're going to then serialize
those EOs out to the file system.
magically it happens.
So let's go look at the document
that gets generated here.
As you can see, wow,
there's a lot of stuff there.
Really, no data is serialized out.
Basically, references to our data.
And you can see in here, for instance,
we've actually serialized out,
let me highlight that for you,
the editing context and some
of the other EOs as well.
It's a nice little long document.
Close that out.
Now the next thing I'm going to
do is navigate to the next page.
From here, we're going to deserialize and
bring all of those EOs back into the
application and display the links again.
It's just that fast.
We'll click on an item.
Voila.
And let's look a little bit of
code here to see how simple it was.
For serializing out,
you pass us your objects,
and then from there we go through and
we get a hold of an NSXML output stream.
We format it,
and then from there we write out,
and then from there flush
and close the buffer,
and we're all set to go.
Of course, you know,
there's some error handling there.
That's a positive thing.
Then to deserialize
and bring back the EO,
you just go out and get
a hold of your stream.
Then from there,
create an NSXML input stream,
read it back in,
and you're all set to go.
So it's easy as pie, very simple,
straightforward, to the point.
Back to slides.
Next, I want to talk to you about XSL.
XSL stands for Extensible
Style Sheet Language.
It has two rule-based vocabularies,
that being XSLT,
or Extensible Style Sheet
Language Transformation,
and the other one, XSLFO.
That stands for Formatting Objects.
Both of these vocabularies
transform source XML documents,
and both specify the
formatting of XML documents.
Now,
formatting objects is an XML vocabulary
that defines page layout,
pagination, the placement of images,
text, that kind of thing, on a document,
and then from there,
it's converted to a binary format,
like PDF and Word.
And you can also maybe generate an
SGV file or any kind of binary output
that you want based on these objects.
And a really good place to go to
get information concerning FO,
XSLFO, is the Apache site.
They have a formatting objects parser
out there that you can download and
use as a part of your application.
It's very simple, straightforward,
and to the point.
But what we really want to focus on...
is XSLT,
which is the rules document of XSL.
It enables us to extract data from
a source XML document and then
transform it into whatever format,
XML, text, HTML that we want to.
Now,
the XSLT vocabulary has many constructs,
and the main one is the
template matching functionality.
And that enables you to
look in your XML document,
identify an element, tag,
and then from there, work on that tag,
the data that's inside of it as well,
the content.
It also has copying,
control structures such as if-then-else,
if-then-else-choose.
It also has iteration,
the ability to loop through.
And it also gives you
the ability to mainstay.
It also gives you the ability to
maintain state by defining variables.
Using XPath,
which is an expression matching
functionality as a part of XSLT,
you're able to find data
and then from there,
work upon that data.
And we'll kind of touch upon
that in a small example coming
up here in a few moments.
Now,
the components that make up XSLT are the
source valid XSL transformation document,
the XALAN XSL transformation
parser or processor,
and a valid source XML document.
And those three components work together
to generate an output XML document.
So you're basically going and
you're converting an XML document
to another XML document,
or maybe converting an
XML document to an HTML document,
XHTML document,
or even a text-formatted document.
Now here are some examples of
the components that make up
the transformation process.
At the top, we have foo.xml,
and this is a basic input document,
very simple, straightforward.
It's kind of like a
Hello World kind of document.
In the middle,
there's our XSLT style sheet,
and you can see there that
there's a template element,
and that's used to find the tag
or the element and work upon it.
You see that one of the
attributes is the name match,
and that tells you what
the name of the element is.
And as a part of that,
there's also the value of element,
and that enables you to find
the content inside of there.
And at the bottom,
there's the output that gets
generated based on that.
Now, some of the uses of XSLT are
transforming XML to HTML,
XHTML, WML,
and you can also take a FO document,
put it through your XSLT processor,
and then from there
generate a PDF document.
There's any number of different text
transformations that you can do as well.
Now, some of the two key processors in
XSLT are Apache Xalan and Saxon,
which is located at SourceForge.
And here are some of the URLs that
you can go to to get more information.
Give you a moment to jot those down.
Now let's look at the demo.
And as a part of this demo,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take an XML document and convert it into
an HTML document to show you how simple
and easy it is to do transformations
in WebObjects using our parser.
Okay,
so we bring up the application here,
and let's fire it up.
Okay.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to load in an XML document called
And then I'm going to
take an XSLT style sheet,
load that in,
and I'm going to enter the name
of our destination document.
And by pressing this button,
I'm going to do the transformation.
and magically there it appears.
Let's look at this real quickly,
the document that we just generated.
It's just straight HTML, very simple,
straightforward and to the point.
And if we look at the style sheet,
A very basic style sheet that
enables you to go through and
transform the source XML document.
And you can see the template here.
And it's looking for the tag product.
And based on that,
it's going to pull out the data
where you see the description in.
I'm sorry?
We're not as close to your
[Transcript missing]
So there's the XML document
that we transformed.
And let's go back again,
give you a better look
at the other document.
How's that?
Thank you.
So there we're doing transformations
from an XML document to XSLT.
Now the next thing we're going to do,
and this is kind of a
little bit unplanned here,
is we're going to go ahead
and we're going to take...
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
What's your favorite card game?
Solitaire.
Excellent.
I prefer Magic, but...
Okay, let's hope that works.
Okay.
So now by pressing this button,
I'm going to go through
and do the transformation,
and I'm going to write it
out here to the console.
So let me just clear the console there,
so keep me honest.
Press the submit button.
And magically, there you are.
We've taken an XML document-- I'm sorry,
we've taken a NSDictionary,
and we've converted it into an
XML representation of a plist.
So let's look at some code real quick.
This is the serialization portion for
taking an NSDictionary and converting
it to an XML representation of a plist.
Pretty straightforward to the point.
And we want to kind of focus
on this line of code here.
Let me get to it right now.
He's the guy that does the
quote unquote "heavy lifting."
And to do the XSLT transformations
that we saw previously,
there's a code there.
Pretty straightforward to the point.
And that's it.
So pretty much it's very simple,
very little code that enables
you to do transformations
inside of WebObjects using XSLT.
And with that,
I'm going to call up Bob Frank so that
he can demo XMLRPC and WoXMLCoder.
Bob?
Thank you, Mike.
Very good.
WoXML node and XML RPC.
What is WoXML Node?
WoXML Node,
if you're not familiar with it,
is a graphical way that you can use
WoBuilder to create XML documents.
It allows you to use all of the dynamic
elements that you're familiar with for
building WebObjects HTML documents.
You can use WoConditional,
you can use WoSwitch,
you can use repetitions, etc., and so on.
And instead of producing
a pure HTML document,
it will produce an XML document.
It has a very tight integration
with WebObjects Builder.
You can drag and drop.
You can drag relationships from EOs,
from objects that are in the
bottom part of WebObjects Builder,
and use them to populate your
values for your WoXML nodes.
And the document format is
under your precise control.
From a verboseness perspective,
compared to some of the automatic tools
that you get to do the heavy lifting,
like NSXML, Object Input Stream,
and Output Stream,
it's probably going to give you a more
compact representation when you build
it yourself and you specifically specify
what you want the document to look like.
On the other hand,
when you use the automatic tools
that you get with Object Input
Stream and Output Stream,
they have a bunch of other automated
facilities that allow you to serialize,
for example,
an EO and serialize it back in
in another application easily.
When you do use WoXML node, though,
one thing that you need to
do in your component that's
generating your XML document,
your page, is you need to set the header,
the response.setHeader,
to text XML as your content type.
What this does,
and I'll show it to you in the demo,
it tells the browser to realize,
or whoever's receiving it,
that this is an XML document.
IE happens to be very intelligent when
it comes to receiving XML documents,
and they have a little
XML browser built in.
You're all familiar with the
typical WoW HTTP application.
Well, okay, so maybe this isn't quite
a typical application.
This is a fairly complex application.
You have the browsers
communicating via HTTP,
going through the firewall,
hitting the web servers,
sending all sorts of messages
all over the place to a variety
of application instances.
Well, it's a very nice application.
What XMLRPC does,
it is a method that allows
servers to communicate directly
to each other over HTTP,
typically, and it allows you to execute
remote procedure calls.
So,
What you'll see is a simple communication
between servers to allow them to
generate requests on another machine,
perhaps running WebObjects, perhaps not,
and send a request and get
back a response or a fault.
A fault is like an exception or an error.
What is XMLRPC and SOAP?
They're both technologies that
are used in the coming popular
buzzword of web services.
We have an entire session, session 705,
devoted exclusively to web services,
focusing primarily on the SOAP aspect,
so I'm not going to
touch very much on SOAP.
XMLRPC is an earlier and a much more
simple approach to web services.
It's a parameter marshalling
mechanism that focuses very much
on the metaphor of a remote.
SOAP stands for
Simple Object Access Protocol.
It's much more robust,
and it has a lot more buzzword
momentum going for it,
with a lot of large players
in the web services industry.
It has much more typing specifications,
as Han-Min pointed out earlier,
regarding namespacing
for schema documents,
and therefore it is typically
more compact for certain
types of representations.
And, once again... C705 for more than
you ever wanted to know about web
services and the SOAP aspects of it.
One other comment about SOAP,
it's a W3C note.
XML RPC is not.
But both are focusing on remote
communication between servers so
that you don't need to do something,
for example, like screen scraping.
If you wanted to get data
from a remote server,
typically many people have implemented
a variety of screen scraping
mechanisms in order to get data,
whether data stock data, et cetera,
et cetera.
Now, with web services becoming
more and more popular,
none of that's necessary.
And when neither of these
protocols focus on remote object
activation or garbage collection,
those are implementation details
of the implementation on either
side of the communications channel.
XML RPC.
What do I mean when
I say strict RPC concept?
It means that you have a method
or a function name on the remote
server that you wish to execute.
And you're going to send
an XML-based request.
Your document is going to be a request,
please execute this method for me,
and give me back a response.
Very much just like traditional
functional programming.
All requests in the XML document are
falling under a method call XML tag.
I'll show you the document
structure in a second.
All responses are wrapped in a
method response document tag.
XML RPC uses faults to
represent error conditions.
And in Java, it is handled very
similar to an exception,
but in most XML RPC representations
and what most error codes mean,
they are typically less
severe than the error codes.
an exception in Java.
To build up a method call,
you specify the method name that you
want to execute on the remote server.
And as you build that up,
you add the parameters that
you want to pass along to it.
And those are passed to the document,
depending on the library
that you're using.
In my demo,
you'll see an implementation wrapping,
the Apache XMLRPC jar files.
And they take a vector of your arguments.
I've written a simple wrapper
that maintains the array for you.
And you don't need to necessarily
build an independent vector or
an array and pad all of it with
the parameters that you want.
XMLRPC supports a very simple
set of base primitive types,
boolean, double, date time, integers,
strings.
They are typically getting more
and more support from underlying
XMLRPC parsers to support Unicode.
Originally, the XMLRPC specification,
I believe, specified only ASCII,
but due to the fact that more and
more XML parsers support Unicode,
you get that for free nowadays.
Additional types for
encoding binary data,
it specifies a base64 encoding,
which transforms binary data
into a character representation.
Additionally, it has data structures
to contain complex data,
arrays-- I think everyone understands
the concept of arrays-- and structs,
which is their representation
of a dictionary.
Names are strings used for keys,
and values may be of any type.
Obviously, it's unordered.
The values in the XML document
are exactly as I specified
them in the previous slide.
An int is an int tag,
and the content goes inside the tag.
Boolean is a Boolean specified by 0 or 1.
String is a string, any content.
Double is a double,
and datetime follows this ISO format.
And in the XML RPC jar file
from the Apache jar file,
it has a convenience formatter
that takes a Java date and
formats it in this format.
All values, oh, and base64.
All values are wrapped with a value tag.
For example, if you have a string,
hello world,
everybody's first program string,
it's wrapped with the value tag.
An array looks like this.
You have an array and
it contains its data,
and the data contains an
ordered set of values.
So this value is serialized into the
XML document and un-serialized in this
order from the client to the server.
And the dictionary, each member of the
dictionary is a member tag.
That specifies a name-value pair.
Your key are your names and
your values are your ints.
And you see in a name,
it doesn't specify a string.
In XMLRPC,
if you do not specify any data type,
all data types are implicitly
assumed to be string.
But it's best, just like in Java,
to specify your types,
it's always best to specify
exactly what type you have.
This is the whole tamale of what
an XMLRPC request looks like.
You have a standard HTTP header
specifying where it's going and what
the path to the method on the server is.
All XMLRPC requests are done via POST.
And the content type is text, XML.
Content length must be accurate,
must be specified.
And you have your XML header.
The method call tag begins the
body of the XML document where
it specifies your method name.
In this case, examples.getStateName.
On the server side,
you will be looking for this method.
And the value is an int specifying 32.
The response comes back.
What is the 30-second state?
You can see here the answer is Minnesota.
The response is a standard HTTP packet
with an HTTP response code connection,
content length, which again is mandatory,
must be specified and accurate,
content type, date, and server.
You have your XML header,
and then your method response
makes up the body of your document.
A method response has
a single params tag,
which includes a single parameter.
The parameter can
include a compound type,
an array, or a dictionary, a struct,
an XMLRPC vocabulary.
And what this does is this gives
you the ability to return any
value you want from your function.
A fault is a method response,
includes a fault and a value,
and unlike the method response,
it includes a dictionary with two values,
a fault code, which is a numeric value,
and a fault string,
which is a descriptive
term for what the error is.
There are several common extensions in
XML RPC that many servers implement.
System.multi-call is
commonly implemented,
and it allows you to include an
array of dictionaries in the body
of your payload that allows you
to execute multiple methods in
a single request response loop.
And a few introspection methods are also
commonly implemented by many servers.
List methods, method signature,
and method help.
Other key features, because it,
by default, goes over HTTP,
it's very easy to go over HTTPS if
your web server supports it.
And also it has built-in support for
HTTP user password authentication.
Likewise, since it's not encrypted,
by default, standard HTTP user password
authentication is more secure
if you run it over HTTPS.
At this point,
I'd like to go to demo three to give
you an example of XML RPC and blogging.
Let me quick fire up the server here.
I'm going to show you a quick screen
of what the application looks like,
and then we'll dive in and
take a quick look at the code.
Blogging, by the way,
is a very popular thing,
popular use of XMLRPC.
And in addition to other popular
technologies like Jabber,
it's also based on XMLRPC.
So let me quick log in.
First, if you want to take a look,
using WoE XML node,
I created a WoE component
that demonstrates what the
request is going to look like.
And since I set the header
content to type text XML,
Internet Explorer receives this
as an XML document and realizes,
hey, this is in fact an XML document.
I have a little handling built
in to show how this works.
Here is the structure.
Here is the method that we're using.
Get user blogs is a login function.
It returns empty if there's
no blogs for this user.
And a temp app key is another
parameter that I'm requiring.
So let's go ahead and log in.
And you can see it's
a very standard WOAP.
This is a client application.
Boy, am I happy to be here.
and we've successfully submitted
it to the server process,
which is running on the same box.
They're communicating
over TCP/IP using XML RPC.
The request that went
out looked like this.
Boy, am I happy to be here.
And the method was new post.
So, just so that you can see it works,
let's take a look at
what the blog looks like.
Rather than actually
publishing a static HTML file,
I cheated and just made
a little direct action.
But, boy, am I happy to be here.
I'm very happy to be here.
So,
what is involved with this application?
I made a little core framework
wrapping the Apache XMLRPC jar files.
The one thing that I've
done that is not--well,
two things that I've done.
The first thing that I did that was
not standard or does not come with
the Apache XMLRPC file is I wrote
a little converter that converts
NSDictionary's and NSArrays to vectors
and hash tables and back and forth again.
So that way,
I don't need to modify the Apache code,
and I can still use all of the native
types that come with WebObjects
and come from my EOs and EOF and
just have to call one static method
to do a conversion of my array.
And you can see here,
depending on the various
types that they are,
instance of, I convert it one way,
and then I convert it back another way.
The second thing that I've
done is I've wrapped... Hmm,
what are you doing here?
The second thing that I've
done is I've wrapped... Well,
it doesn't seem to be happy.
I wrapped the XML RPC code
with a woe method call.
The machine appears to be spinning,
so I will talk for a second while
I try and get back the machine here.
[Transcript missing]
What?
I think actually you'd probably
want to pay me not to sing.
But at this point,
I have one last wrap-up slide.
Maybe if you have some
time at the end of Q&A,
I'll show some more demo later.
I just wanted to summarize a few
things about XMLRPC and compare
it with SOAP in one more way.
It really is a very simple protocol.
It says to the remote server,
go ahead and do this one function for
me and give me back this one result.
The spec for XMLRPC,
if you go to userland, this is it.
It's only about, let's see,
six pages long.
But if you were to go
to the W3C and ask them,
well, the simple, this is like in SOAP,
is like the green in Greenland.
Because if you print this out...
It's like 50 pages long.
And so I just wanted to point out that
it's good for doing very limited tasks,
but I think that that'll cover
a lot of what people want.
At this point,
I think while the demo machine
comes back to life slowly,
we could probably take some Q&A.